---
title: Horizontalism
navbar_position: 3
---
## Horizontalism 101

Within the anti-authoritarian current, horizontalism is a favored and popular method of internally structuring an organization or group. Simply put, a group that practices horizontalism does not have official leaders (such as presidents, treasurers, etc.) but instead places the same amount of formal power and decision-making ability into the hands of everyone in the group. Hence the term: horizontal. This means instead of a vertical, or in activist lingo what's known as a top-down structure where organizations make decisions and concentrate power into the hands of a few people at the top, groups are structured horizontally- or on a flat plane so that no one has more formal power than anyone else.

There are many reasons why groups decide to structure themselves horizontally, for instance: imagine you work at a chain restaurant (which many of us students do). Such a restaurant will have a corporate office, somewhere off in a distant town, with GMs and CEOs that you might have met a couple of times and who probably come into the location you work at maybe once a month or so (this would be if you work at a relatively small chain, if you're working at McDonald's you've never spoken to, seen, or even thought about the possibility of encountering your corporate bosses). But, even though these individuals have little to no relationship with you or your co-workers, or probably don't even live in the town that your restaurant is located in, they make all the decisions about what will be featured on the food menu, who your immediate boss will be, who gets fired or hired, your personal hourly wage, and so on. Basically, these individuals will have complete control over every aspect of your work environment, and you (who have direct contact with both workers and customers) will have zero input or impact on the daily operations, the performance of your managers, and even what you think the customers might like to see on a menu (say if you know people love chili in your town and it would sell very well, but the corporate office has no idea). At the most basic level this is how a vertical/top-down organization operates, and horizontalists are inclined to believe that those people working in the restaurant every day should have more input and power to make decisions and make improvements to their work place.
